Prior literature has documented that corporate events occur in waves. Examples of these event waves include mergers (Weston, Mitchell, and Mulherin, 2004, Andrade, Mitchell, and Stafford, 2001, Rhodes-Kropf, Robinson, and Viswanathan, 2005, Harford, 2005, and Dong, Hirshleifer, Richardson, and Teoh, 2006), seasoned equity offerings (SEOs) (Lucas and McDonald, 1990, Choe, Masulis and Nanda, 1993, and Bayless and Chaplinsky, 1996), and stock repurchases (Dittmar and Dittmar, 2008). There is little evidence in the literature however, on whether firms engaged in these types of events differ systematically in their characteristics. Do firms that engage in event activity within waves differ in predictable patterns from firms that engage in event activity outside waves? Do firm characteristics evolve similarly as event waves progress?  Answering these questions is important. There are two major hypotheses that have been advocated as competing explanations behind waves of corporate events. According to the neoclassical explanation waves occur for efficiency reasons when an external shock – technological, regulatory or economic – affects an industry and subsequently causes a wave of events in that industry (see, for example, Gort, 1969). In contrast, the misvaluation explanation argues that managers take advantage of industry or economy wide market misvaluations by taking their firms public, issuing equity, or making stock-financed acquisitions (Shleifer and Vishny, 2003; RhodesKropf and Viswanathan, 2004). However, the past literature has been unable to distinguish clearly between the two hypotheses, with different studies finding support for one or the other, even when using samples from the same time period (see, for example, Maksimovic and Phillips, 2001;  Jovanovic and Rousseau, 2002; Shleifer and Vishny, 2003; Rhodes-Kropf and Viswanathan, 2004; Rhodes-Kropf, Robinson, and Viswanathan, 2005; Harford, 2005). In addition, recent literature has shown that different types of corporate events also cluster in time. It is unclear however, whether there is an economic justification for the clustering of event activity or whether the activity is simply coincidental. For example, Allen and Michaely (1995) note that a surge in repurchases after 1983 lines up with a surge in mergers. Dittmar and Dittmar (2008) find a positive relation between levels of aggregate repurchase activity and levels of aggregate stock issuance or merger activity. In contrast, Ceylikyurt, Sevilir, and Shivdasani (2010) document a positive relationship between new issue activity and merger activity. Rau and Stouraitis (2011) report strong positive correlations at the industry level in contemporaneous activity within stock issuance events of different types (SEOs, new issues and stock-financed acquisitions), and negative correlations between all three stock issuance events and stock repurchases.  We hypothesize that if waves occur for efficiency reasons, then we should observe that firms with high ex ante growth opportunities should participate in waves, regardless of the corporate event. However, if waves form when managers take advantage of over-valued markets by issuing equity, we should observe that firms that are more likely to be misvalued take part in equity related waves (SEOs and stock-financed acquisitions) but not in cash-related waves (cash-financed acquisitions). In addition, if firm-level characteristics explain the types of events firms undertake, then commonalities in these characteristics might help distinguish naturally related events from coincidental occurrences. In this paper, we examine the characteristics of firms participating in 41,497 corporate transactions, in four different types of corporate events (8,507 SEOs, 17,650 acquisitions – both stock and cash-financed, and 15,340 open-market share repurchases) using a comprehensive dataset of corporate transactions over the 30-year period 1980-2009. We examine proxies for investment opportunities (R&D, capital expenditure), growth opportunities (Tobin’s Q, dispersion of Tobin’s Q), proxies for misvaluation (the firm-specific error in market-to-book ratio following RhodesKropf, Robinson and Vishwanathan, 2005), stock, and operating performance measures and draw conclusions on the types of firms that engage in corporate event waves.  We perform two levels of comparisons. For each event, we compare firm characteristics outside waves to firm-level characteristics at different stages within waves, specifically events that occur during short waves (whose duration is one calendar quarter), and those that occur at the beginning, middle and end of long waves (whose duration exceeds one calendar quarter). For example, this analysis compares the characteristics of firms conducting stock-financed acquisitions in the beginning of the wave with those of firms that conduct stock-financed acquisitions at the end of the wave. In addition, we compare firm characteristics across different types of events at the same stages of waves. This analysis compares whether, for example, firms that conduct stock-financed acquisitions at the beginning of a stock financed acquisition wave differ in their characteristics from firms that conduct SEOs at the beginning of an SEO wave. For all four types of events, we employ a bootstrap simulation methodology to identify waves at the industry level. We create a simulated distribution for each event by randomly assigning each actual deal to a quarter within our sample period, where the probability of being assigned to a specific quarter depends on the industry’s number of listed firms during that quarter. For each event, in each industry, we generate 1,000 randomly drawn series. Any quarter where actual activity (measured as number of deals) exceeds the maximum of the simulated distribution is designated as a potential wave quarter. For each type of transaction, we find significant differences between firms that announce the event within or outside waves. In addition, firms that announce events within waves evolve systematically in their characteristics as the wave evolves. As the waves progress, the magnitude of the difference usually shrinks, suggesting that shocks (either efficiency or misvaluation) give rise to waves, and the severity of the shock is related to the length of the wave. For stock-financed acquisitions, there seems to be some evidence of both neoclassical growth opportunities and misvaluation, with misvaluation more likely to appear in the beginning of long multi-quarter waves. The evidence for misvaluation is weaker for firms announcing seasoned equity issues. For cashfinanced acquisitions, the results seem to be less consistent with misvaluation. On the other hand, undervaluation is positively related to the onset of repurchase waves. Furthermore, our results suggest that firms announcing stock-financed acquisitions inside waves are more misvalued than firms announcing all other types of events. They are significantly more misvalued (and have generally worse operating performance) compared to firms doing SEOs and cash-financed M&A. In contrast, differences between the events outside waves are smaller and in many cases, less significant than differences within waves. Our results suggest that the firms involved in cash-financed activity are fundamentally different from those involved in stock-financed activity, implying that inferences on waves drawn by aggregating stock- and cash-financed acquisition activity, for example, may not be appropriate. Finally, we report valuation effects, both short-term (around a 3-day announcement window) and long-term (over 12 and 36 months following the transaction) for firms that announce events outside waves, inside waves and at different stages of the waves. One- and three-year cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) are computed with respect to a size and a book-to-market matched portfolio, formed using the sequential sort procedure employed by Rau and Vermaelen (1998). We estimate significance levels for the monthly CARs using a bootstrapping approach (see Lyon, Barber and Tsai, 1999). This procedure is designed to overcome various biases in measurement of long horizon abnormal returns (see Barber and Lyon, 1997; Rau and Vermaelen, 1998; Fama, 1998; Loughran and Ritter, 2000; Jegadeesh, 2000; Brav, Geczy, and Gompers, 2000). We find that firms undertaking stock issuing events (SEOs, stock-financed M&A) during waves earn significantly lower abnormal returns in the 12 and 36 months following the event. In contrast, this pattern is not present in firms announcing cash payment events (cash-financed M&A, repurchases). In combination with our earlier results that the stock-financed acquisitions are associated with larger misvaluation in the beginning and middle of waves, this suggests that stock-financed acquisitions during long waves are driven by misvalued firms. Our findings shed new light on previous findings in the literature. On the puzzle of previous studies that find results in support or against the neoclassical or misvaluation hypothesis, our results suggest that inferences can be very sensitive to the presence or absence of waves in some industries in the sample, to the stage of the wave, and to the aggregation of types of transactions conducted by firms with different characteristics (such as cash- and stock-financed acquisitions, often aggregated in samples of “merger waves”). For example, Dittmar and Dittmar (2008) find a positive relation between levels of aggregate repurchase activity and levels of aggregate stock issuance or merger activity, which they interpret as evidence against the presence of misvaluation. We show that the characteristics of firms that conduct these transactions are different, and consequently overvalued firms may engage in stock issuance activity while at the same time undervalued firms may engage in repurchases.  Some studies have suggested that waves of different types of events may become mechanically related when firms do two transactions instead of one (for example, raising cash in an SEO in order to spend it in a cash-financed M&A, or doing a stock-financed M&A and a repurchase, when the acquirer wants to pay cash but target shareholders prefer to receive stock for tax reasons (Fama and French (2001)). Our findings are not consistent with these conjectures, because we show that the firms participating in waves of different types of events appear to be different both when they conduct events outside and inside the wave. Firm characteristics appear to diverge more at different stages within the wave. Therefore, although these conjectures may be consistent with how some individual firms behave, they are not strong enough to explain waves of events or the correlations between waves of different events.  